[Project homepage](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst) > Instructions for use

--- 

The *novelyst* Python program provides a tree view for *.yw7* novel projects.

# Instructions for use


## Installation

- Unzip the downloaded zipfile into a new folder.
- Move into this new folder and launch **setup.pyw**. This installs the application for the local user.
- Create a shortcut on the desktop when asked.
- Optionally, you can replace the "Python" icon by the *novelyst* logo you may find in the installation's **icons** subdirectory.

---

### Windows integration

After installation, the setup script displays a button to open the installation directory. On Windows, the path is typically

`C:\Users\<username>\.pywriter\novelyst`

There you will find some registry scripts that can help you integrate *novelyst* into Windows. They are started by double-clicking.

- **add_context_menu.reg** adds an **Open with novelyst** command for *.yw7* files to the Explorer's context menu. This is recommended if you run *novelyst* in parallel with *yWriter*.  
- **set_open_cmd.reg** makes Explorer launch *novelyst* when you double-click *.yw7* files. *.yw7* files will be assigned the *novelyst* icon. This is recommended if you want to run *novelyst* as the default application for *.yw7* files. 

You can redo this:

- **rem_context_menu.reg** removes the **Open with novelyst** command for *.yw7* files from the Explorer's context menu.
- **reset_icon** re-assigns the *yWriter* logo (if any) to *.yw7* files. 

To open *.yw7* files with *yWriter* again by default, change the file association in the usual Windows way.

**IMPORTANT**

The registry scripts are generated by the distribution's **setup.py** script. They contain customized paths to your user profile and to your current Python installation. After upgrading Python to another version, you may have to re-run the distribution's **setup.py** script as well as (afterwards) the registration scripts.

--- 

### Linux desktop integration

- You can configure a desktop launcher for *novelyst* and assign the *novelyst* icon you may find in the installation's **icons** subdirectory.
- You can set *novelyst* as the default application for *.yw7* files.

Please refer to your desktop's documentation. 

---

## Launch the program

The included installation script prompts you to create a shortcut on the desktop. 

You can either

- launch the program by double-clicking on the shortcut icon, or
- launch the program by dragging a *.yw7* project file and dropping it on the shortcut icon.


--- 

# Online help

You can open this page with **Help > Online help**.

## Command reference

- **[File menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/file_menu)**
- **[View menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/view_menu)**
- **[Part menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/part_menu)**
- **[Chapter menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/chapter_menu)**
- **[Scene menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/scene_menu)**
- **[Characters menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/characters_menu)**
- **[Locations menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/locations_menu)**
- **[Items menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/items_menu)**
- **[Project notes menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/project_notes_menu)**
- **[Export menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/export_menu)**
- **[Tools menu](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/tools_menu)**


--- 


# Tree view operation

### Move parts, chapters, and scenes

Drag and drop while pressing the **Alt** key. Be aware, there is no "Undo" feature. 
- When moving a normal chapter from the narrative to the "Research" branch, be sure to
  change its type to "Notes".

### Delete parts, chapters, and scenes

Select item and hit the **Del** key.

- When deleting a part, chapter oder scene, the scenes are moved to the _Trash_ chapter at the bottom. 
- The _Trash_ chapter is created automatically, if needed. 
- When deleting the _Trash_ chapter, all scenes are deleted.


# Basic concepts

## Formatting text

It is assumed that very few types of text markup are needed for a novel text:

- *Emphasized* (usually shown as italics).
- *Strongly emphasized* (usually shown as capitalized).
- *Citation* (paragraph visually distinguished from body text).

When exporting to ODT format, *novelyst* replaces these formattings as follows: 

- Text with `[i]Italic markup[/i]` is formatted as *Emphasized*.
- Text with `[b]Bold markup[/b]` is formatted as *Strongly emphasized*. 
- Paragraphs starting with `> ` are formatted as *Quote*.

## Arcs

With *arcs*, you can link your plot to the narrative. See the [Arcs help page](https://peter88213.github.io/novelyst/help/arcs)


## About document language handling

ODF documents are generally assigned a language that determines spell checking and country-specific character substitutions. In addition, Office Writer lets you assign text passages to languages other than the document language to mark foreign language usage or to suspend spell checking. 

*novelyst* supports this language handling for *OpenOffice/LibreOffice* interoperability.

### Document overall

The project language (Language code acc. to ISO 639-1 and country code acc. to ISO 3166-2) can be set in the **Narrative** settings (right pane) under **Document language**. The codes are stored as *yWriter* project variables. 

### Text passages in scenes

Text markup for other languages is imported from ODT documents. It is represented by *yWriter* project variables. Thus it's fully compatible with *yWriter*, which interprets them as HTML instructions during document export.

This then looks like this, for example:

`xxx xxxx [lang=en-AU]yyy yyyy yyyy[/lang=en-AU] xxx xxx` 

For the example shown above, the project variable definition for the opening tag looks like this: 

- *Variable Name:* `lang=en-AU` 
- *Value/Text:* `<HTM <SPAN LANG="en-AU"> /HTM>`

The point of this is that such language assignments are preserved even after multiple conversions in both directions, so they are always effective for spell checking in the ODT document.

It is recommended not to modify such markups with *novelyst* to avoid unwanted nesting and broken enclosing. 


# License

This is Open Source software, and *novelyst* is licensed under GPLv3. See the
[GNU General Public License website](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html) for more
details, or consult the [LICENSE](https://github.com/peter88213/novelyst/blob/main/LICENSE) file.

